Hi, my name is Andrew Barnes,
and this is the Graphics
2D Performance session.
So now, we're going to start.
So what you'll learn today is about
how to use the graphics 2D API,
Quartz 2D API, efficiently.
And...
to help you to improve your
application's graphics performance.
So,
what you'll learn today is how to draw
what you have to draw efficiently.
The second thing you're going to learn
today is how you get what you've drawn
onto the screen so the user can see it.
And the third thing that
you're going to do is sort of a
meta-level type of how does your
application interact with the user,
sort of live resizing,
little things that you might want to
know when you're writing applications.
So, let's get started.
Here's the graphics architecture slide.
You've seen it before
in other presentations.
Basically,
applications can draw either video, 3D,
or 2D.
And what they do is they draw,
particularly for video and 3D,
they draw into surfaces.
Those are hardware-accelerated surfaces.
And for your 2D content,
you draw into window backing stores.
Those window backing stores are
sort of shared between processes,
the Quartz compositor,
and your application.
And what happens is the Quartz
compositor takes that data,
the data you've just rendered,
either video or 3D,
and assembles it all together,
puts it in the frame buffer,
and it scans out.
The user sees it.
Great.
So what we're not going
to talk about today,
although the things that you
learn in this session would
be definitely applicable,
is 3D and video.
There are other sessions
related to those topics.
And the second thing we're not
going to talk about is Quickdraw.
So hopefully you were
at the last session,
which had to do with transitioning
from Quickdraw to Quartz,
so we won't be talking about that here.
But definitely your questions,
go take them through the Q&A.
Thank you.
And hopefully we can accelerate your
transition from Quickdraw to Quartz.
Now what we will be
talking about is Quartz 2D.
Ah, there you go.
But first, interesting topic.
What about Quartz 2D Extreme?
You've heard it in the past,
previous presentations,
and for those of you
who haven't heard it,
it's the OpenGL-based
acceleration of the Quartz 2D API.
The final version, as Peter said in his
keynote presentation,
was that the final version
was not in Panther--oh,
sorry, Tiger.
But a debug version is
available for you to test.
So...
While we went off and did
all this really crazy,
cool stuff,
we learned a few interesting lessons.
One lesson is that for the
majority of applications,
graphics rendering is not
always the bottleneck.
But for the applications
that are rendering bound,
we found out that if you were to not use
the Quartz 2D API in the optimal fashion,
you get varying results.
And so this session is really
designed to help you to try and--
Change your application in
such a way that you can make
optimal use of the 2D API,
such that when Quartz
Extreme 2D comes online,
you will benefit from it greatly.
So the last point on this things we've
learned was that if you use the API well,
you get tremendous performance increases.
So what you have to do as
developers is definitely run out
and take your applications and
test it on Quartz 2D Extreme,
the debug version.
And the optimization--
[Transcript missing]
Let's talk about drawing your stuff
or your data into your backing stores.
So what I'm going to cover
here is basically some basic
graphics optimization tenants.
They're sort of
micro-level optimizations,
and they're sort of
macro-level optimizations.
The first one is
minimizing state changes.
Doesn't matter what graphics
architecture you're on,
what graphics engine you're using,
minimizing state changes will
increase your performance.
So as we go through some
more of this session,
you'd realize that I was
going to be talking to this
point over and over again.
The second thing is
minimize your drawing.
If stuff doesn't need to be drawn,
don't draw it.
If you can get rid of
data by culling it out,
or know that you only need to update
a little section of the screen,
do that.
It will serve you well in
any kind of graphics API.
The third thing is sort of--
You have to be cautious about
how much memory you consume,
right?
Even though people say memory is
cheap and you've got a lot of it,
the disk is slow.
Every byte you write out to memory is a
byte that can potentially get paged off.
So if you are cautious about the
type of memory that you have and
whether or not you need your terabyte
of data of your atlas or your images,
and you don't need it,
you only draw it at once,
just get rid of it.
Don't let the system try and decide, oh,
you need pages,
so I've got to page this stuff out.
Well, that's going to take some time,
especially on my Mac Mini.
So now we're going to move on
to sort of macro-level tenants.
The biggest one here is sort
of knowing your data set.
It's kind of a dubious kind of statement,
but it applies to a lot of things,
and it has a broad spectrum.
It has to do with knowing
what types of data,
knowing the size of data.
I always keep on saying there are
like three numbers in the universe.
Zero, nothing.
One, something, and only one thing.
And N, everything else.
If your application falls into the
trap of the class of there's going
to be nothing or there's one thing,
then fine.
You can just have a very trivial
algorithm that will deal with that.
But if your application says, yes,
I can open a file that
has thousands of lines,
you have to have ways of
dealing with thousands of lines.
The same thing with images
and sizes of images,
and even the types of images.
So knowing what type of
data you're dealing with is
definitely an important thing.
The final point on macro-level tenants is
sort of you kind of have to every now and
again stand at 60,000 foot level and say,
is this the right way of doing things?
I know I did it before.
This is the right way.
This is the best way.
But perhaps I should change
things around and see if I can
get better performance out of it.
First, we're going to move to the number
one rule in minimized state changes.
Objects.
Objects are paths and
different types of objects.
We'll talk about those later.
But you have to consider,
can think about objects as a state.
Right?
Even in GL.
Even in video.
Any type of thing.
And once you have an object,
that object pretty
much represents states.
There's a lot of data
associated with it sometimes.
But it's definitely represents states.
So what you really want to do is you want
to sort of say hang on to your objects,
reuse your objects,
set your object state, use your object,
either release your object if you
no longer want to deal with it,
or hang on to it.
So within Quartz,
your objects as you retain them,
sort of we kind of track your
objects in a working set.
And these objects are sort of your
object references are effectively
keys in terms of into any internal
caches that we might have.
Right?
So if you hang on to your image refs,
you know, like for instance images,
we might, when you render an image,
we might color match it and
do some other stuff to it.
And we will retain this image.
And your performance will increase
whenever you sort of go back
and reuse that same image again.
So just hanging on to your image
is definitely a good thing.
Or hanging on to your path
or hanging on to your colors.
The third thing is sort of
more related to PDF generation.
If you have an image that is, you know,
whatever, how many, how big it is,
but you're drawing it 60 times,
if you draw that image and
then you release that image,
and then you go to the next page and you
draw the image and you release the image,
what's going to actually end up happening
is that you're going to end up with,
you know, the 60 copies of that image
inside of your PDF file.
So hanging on to that image is
probably good and when you reuse it,
you get much more
efficient PDF generation.
So there are other set of related
objects that we'll talk about further
on in the sessions that have to
do with when you hold on to these
objects and you reuse these objects,
you get much more
efficient PDF generation.
So I told you when to
hold on to your objects,
but what about when to
release your objects?
Well, the obvious time to release your
objects is when you don't need it,
right?
Or more optimally,
or sometimes more optimally,
you might want to release
it when you know you're not
going to use it for a while,
right?
And by doing that, we will say, oh, yes,
you know, the guy has decided
to release his object,
we can blow away our terabyte
image because we no longer need it.
So first we're going to start
to talk about little objects.
Objects can be classified
into two types of sections.
So the coverage type objects,
which is sort of like
your cookie cutter sheet,
and then your colorized objects,
which is sort of your color that
you're going to be pouring through
this sheet to present to the user.
So there are several
types of coverage objects.
There are paths,
which are just general paths,
and clips and text.
And colorized objects, colors, patterns,
shadings, layers, and images.
So now we're sort of going to
focus on coverage type objects.
Paths.
Paths are basically general
containers for any kind of geometry.
They have curves, they have lines,
they have rectangles, ellipses,
anything you want to do.
One important point about paths is that
they actually represent atomic coverage.
And what that means is that if you
constructed a huge crisscross path,
basically the coverage for each pixel
inside of that path is computed such
that the pixel is only touched once,
which is a very different
scenario than if you draw a line,
line, line, the intersection points are
going to be touched multiple
times as you draw each line.
So depending on, for instance,
things like your blend mode and whether
or not anti-aliasing is turned on or not,
you end up with little
aliasing artifacts.
So if you want a path rendered
atomically as one object,
you put it into one big
fat path and you render it.
The third thing about paths is that
we've gone through great lengths to
make sure that your paths are fast.
If you use path refs,
like you construct your path,
and then you say CG context,
fill path or stroke path,
that's going to be way faster
than you going around and saying,
"Oh, jeez, I've got my data structure
which has got my 10,000 lines.
Let me go through and say CG context move
to line to whatever." So if you want,
or I would suggest that you
sort of build your paths up,
hang on to your path refs,
and then you can reuse your path refs,
and you get much better performance.
If you don't use path refs,
or even if you do use path refs,
you should probably try and
use the convenience APIs.
Example I like to give
is the ellipse case.
It's much faster for us to
generate the ellipse than for you
to have to put in eight Bezieres.
So if you need complex objects,
you should probably try.
If there's a convenience
function API for you to use,
you should probably use it.
So one of the final set of two points,
avoiding state changes.
So even though you've constructed
your coverage or your path
that represents your coverage,
you might want to think about sort of
maybe reorganizing your data such that
you draw all your blue lines together
and then your green lines together,
for example.
So little things like color and
actual line styles for stroking,
whether it be the line
width or the dashes,
you want to set that state up
and draw all of those together
and then draw some other stuff.
Last point on here,
knowing your geometric locality.
Sort of a bizarre kind of statement.
It's better off for you to,
if you know that you have a path that
consists of a little point over on the
far corner and another path over there,
it's better for you to use two
independent paths for those things
rather than using it as one big object.
So that's one thing you
have to sort of look at.
If there's data over here and
there's data over here and I don't
need to see the data over here,
it's nice to kind of separate the data.
So let's move a little
bit on to the subpath,
subsection of paths.
Lines and rectangles.
Well, paths are really cool for curves
and all this monster stuff,
but what about just lots of lines?
How do I do that fast?
Well, for Tiger,
we've introduced a new Stroke Lines API.
We've had DrawRex for some while now.
And this is the fastest way to draw
lines and rectangles on Quartz.
So you definitely want to cut
over to using stuff like that.
And here our point comes back
about knowing your data set.
As you can see, those are little,
small diagrams.
But well, on screen they're kind of big.
But basically,
if you know exactly what your layout is,
and you have a huge monster,
many megabyte CAD drawing
that you need to draw,
you might want to think about knowing
what the data is and where it is.
So there's also this stuff
about lots and lots of data.
If you've got a waveform that has lots
of little itty bitty line segments,
you might want to think that you should
probably distill that data down to
something a little bit more optimal.
You've got 10,000 lines,
and you only got 100 pixels
across for your window.
Guess what?
The 10,000 lines,
they're not going to mean a whole lot.
So what you want to do is you want
to know what needs to be drawn.
So that means you don't want to draw
the stuff that doesn't need to be drawn,
i.e.
that part of the map that's not visible.
And what you want to do is
you also want to know what is
going to be too small to draw.
A little tiny thing that occupies 1
to 56 of a pixel is probably not going
to make a difference to the user.
So you probably want to say,
kind of cull away those
objects and minimize them.
The last point is sort of about
going back to re-examining
your architectural decisions.
Huge CAD maps, for example,
are really complicated,
and they have a lot of data.
So knowing exactly what your data is,
if you have a set of features that
are buildings and features that
are a bunch of lines and streets
and pathways and bike paths,
you want to sort of kind of
divide that stuff up into sort
of geometrically localized data.
So if you have a lot of
different mechanisms there,
there's sort of grids and quad trees.
My favorite is archery,
which is sort of a-- Yeah.
Yeah.
It's a multi-dimensional bee tree.
It allows you to-- so for 2D,
it gets you to sort of organize
your things into different sections,
so that when you have your viewport,
which is sort of walking around
inside of your CAD drawing,
you can cull away huge sections of
data instead of re-rendering that data.
So for the graphics applications that
do deal with these volumes of data,
I'm sure you're doing all of the stuff.
But for the other people who are sort of
not as-- have applications that large,
you might want to consider
looking into some of these
ways of organizing your data.
So now I'm going to invite Haruno to give
us a demo for the new Path and Lines API.
HARUNO KAURU: Thank you, Andrew.
So I'm just going to talk about,
through code,
some very simple examples of some of the
things that Andrew just talked about.
This code example is QuartzLines.
You want to pull that up if
you've got access to it already.
And we're just going to do a very simple
example of trying to draw 10,000 lines.
It sort of simulates--
arbitrary random data.
But let me just run it just so
people know what we're looking at.
It is supposed--it should show you some,
you know, random lines being drawn,
but it's--you know,
you can use this as an example
for audio waveform data,
you know, stock charts, whatever.
But it's basically a set of sample data.
In this case, it's 10,000 lines.
So let's look at the three different
ways we're gonna actually do this.
Let me just comment out
some of this stuff for now.
Come into here.
The first way-- Andrew's talked about
different ways of drawing lines and
some of the issues associated with them.
The first way is we're
going to create a new path.
We're going to move to and add a line
to that path and stroke the path.
Basically,
repeatedly all 10,000 lines are
going to go out as separate paths.
So that's our first example.
Second example, instead,
what we're going to do is build
a path once outside of the loop.
And later,
we're just going to begin the path,
add the path, and stroke the path.
This is what we're
going to be timing next.
Finally, the last example is--
Instead, we're going to use the
Stroke Line Segments API,
but that just takes an array of points.
So we're just going to take our
original data and instead create
these new arrays of points from that.
But really, most of the work is
really being done there.
So let's run this code now.
So I've got these three lines,
three different ways of doing it,
and they're just offset so
that people can see everything.
The original one being drawn as
separate line segments is roughly
around 200,000 lines per second,
but the key point is the bulk line
APIs that I talked about that we
referenced is around 1.3 million.
So definitely use this sample code.
Try it out in your application.
There's enough people that have asked
these questions in the last few years
that this should be very useful for
people to test and debug some of
the things and see why they're not
getting this level of performance.
One last thing I'm going to do
is look at the--apply Andrew's
comment of knowing your data set.
So in this case,
what we're going to do is--I've
got 10,000 lines that don't
necessarily all need to be drawn
immediately because my window is
roughly around 1,000 pixels across.
So all we're going to do is
generate a limited set of
lines from the original data,
and we're just going to have a small
sampling frequency that sort of goes
through that data appropriately.
So we're not really going
to draw all 10,000 lines.
Let's see how that works out.
And obviously, you know,
we're only drawing about
1,300 lines instead.
It reasonably represents
the original data,
so use that to your advantage.
And the key thing is, it used to take,
you know, seven seconds.
Now it's taking half the time, roughly.
So know your data set.
Take advantage of it.
I'm going to pass it back
to Andrew at this stage.
Thanks, Harun.
So as Harun said,
the key point is know your
data set and use the bulk API.
So now let's talk a little
bit more about clips.
Clips are sort of like paths,
but paths are sort of like set your path,
go.
Forget about it.
Clips are more like, OK, here's a clip.
I'm going to draw a whole bunch of stuff,
and I'm going to change my clip.
So you want to use
clipping to your advantage.
So there's some things that you can
do in order to speed up your drawing.
Obviously,
the goal here is to not draw too
much in addition to the state
changes thing that you want to do.
So what you would like to do is sort
of cull out huge sections of objects.
For instance, in the diagram there,
there's a focus in on the picture because
you just want to get that cut out.
But all those runs of text,
you can just ditch.
And you can ditch them at sort
of an object level if you capture
objects as runs of text in an array.
You can look at these objects without
doing anything terribly complicated.
And you can say, hey,
this entire thing is not going
to touch my clipping boundary.
Why don't I just not draw that?
If you don't do that,
we'll end up doing that.
So instead of handing us all of the
stuff where we have to go through and
get fonts and glyphs and all that stuff,
we can ditch that entire thing
if you don't tell us to draw it.
So that's one thing, right?
Culling your data.
The second point is
about trivial clipping.
If you know that the
data can't be culled,
but you do know that you sort
of have to draw some of it,
if you can, do trivial clipping.
Rectangles, you say, hey, great,
let's cut the rectangle, or text, OK,
instead of drawing all
1,600 characters of text,
let's draw the 16 of them.
So you're sort of waiting between
what your data structure is.
So, definitely,
you probably want to definitely
color away your objects and you
want to do trivial clipping.
And the third guy is if you
don't do trivial clipping,
at least use Quartz.
So, okay, great, we told you how to clip,
but we also want to minimize your clips,
right?
Objects that are going to be
clipped and objects that are
going to share the same clip,
you should probably just set the
clip once and draw the objects.
What you don't want to
do is you want to say,
oh, geez,
I've got an object A with clip A,
and then I've got an
object B with clip B,
and then I want to draw
A again with clip A,
B again with clip B.
Why don't you just set the clip to
be A and draw all your A objects and
draw your B objects with the B clip?
So that's basically getting
along or talking to the point of
minimizing your state changes.
The second thing is you probably
want to try to clip only the
things that need to be clipped.
Something I see developers do a
lot of times is they have an image,
opaque or transparent,
it doesn't really matter.
But they clip.
They clip.
They clip to the bounds of the image,
and then they draw their image.
That clip is useless.
The image itself inherently
has its own clip.
So try not to draw and try not
to set clips on things that you
know you don't need to clip.
So that's one important point
about minimizing your clipping.
Also, in PDF and PostScript generation,
it is much more efficient
to do it that way.
So the last point on here is going on our
little genre of minimizing state changes.
You probably want to minimize your
state changes around your clip,
which gets back to the whole point of
drawing your A objects with your A clip
and then your B objects with your B clip.
So we're going to talk a little
bit more about some more clipping.
You'd like to clip on pixel boundaries.
You might have a user space,
which is rotated in that example.
And the goal here is
to find a device pixel.
Typically, the rotated case is sort
of almost a bad example,
but it sort of gives you an
idea about the complexity of it.
Mostly it would be used for
rectilinear-type transformations.
So things are either
stretched or whatever.
And if you want your rectangle
to hit a pixel boundary,
what you really would like to do
is specify a user space point such
that it will hit a device pixel.
So given that you have the
user space point in user space,
what you want to do is you want
to use the APIs to get the user
space to device space transform,
take your point or points,
transform them to device space,
then round them however you wish.
And then invert transform.
Those device space points
back into user space.
They may not align,
but they would be a point such
that if you were to draw it,
it would hit a device pixel.
So that's something that
you might want to do,
especially with clipping,
especially with image drawing.
If you want things to hit cracks,
this is what you'd have to do.
We also have convenience APIs,
CG context, convert point to device space
and convert point to user space,
to convert back and forth
to simplify your work.
So now we're going to go into
a little bit more clipping.
A common technique that
developers can use is to do
pre-rasterization of the clipping.
If your clip is really,
really complicated,
and you probably don't want to-- and
you have to use it multiple times,
and you don't really want to incur
the cost of having to rebuild that
clip every time you change it,
one mechanism that you can use is that
you can either-- you can pre-render
your clip into a bitmap context,
for instance,
an alpha-only bitmap context,
that would record the actual
coverage for the path.
Then you take that path,
you hang on to that image ref,
and then whenever you
need to set that clip up,
you can reuse that clip by
either saying clip to mask,
or you can actually say clip to image.
It'll be considered at
that point an image mask.
So you could have a color,
and you'd say draw image mask,
or draw image,
which it'll look at the image and
discover that it's only an alpha image,
and therefore it'll apply the
current color through that mask to
give you the drawing that you want.
So that's clipping.
At the Quartz level,
text is sort of viewed as just
a basic collection of paths,
cache paths, right?
Your container is your font and your
glyphs are your index into all these
different little elements that we use.
So at our level,
this is how we look at paths effectively.
So what you need to do
in order to do full text,
and, of course,
text is way more complicated
than just a collection of paths,
you need to use the Cocoa and
Atsui APIs to do your text
layout for you and rendering.
One thing that we always realize,
especially when dealing with text,
is that layout is hugely expensive,
right?
So, if you have a lot of text,
and you're doing a lot of
drawing related to text,
I'm not just talking about
the button type text.
I'm talking about like documents.
You want to consider caching your layout.
Right?
As I said, layout is the most expensive
part of text rendering.
We can render the paths
like nobody's business.
But when it comes to layout,
layout is hugely expensive.
So, you probably want to start thinking
about if you can cache your layout,
you should do that too.
The last point on here is to
try and avoid state changes,
obviously.
Things like font size,
text rendering mode,
even color have to do with state
changes in order to render your text.
So,
you should probably try and minimize it.
And minimize it to the point
of reorganizing your objects.
I mean, if you have a web page.
That has a whole bunch
of black characters.
And then, you know,
a whole bunch of blue characters.
It's probably wise, you know,
for you to say, set the font.
Set the color to black.
Render all your black text.
And then set the font.
And then set the color to blue.
And then render all your blue text.
And so, within balance, I mean,
there's a painter's model
where you draw one thing.
And it's supposed to
appear on top of the other.
But, you know,
typically people don't like overlapping
text because they can't read it.
So, that's one thing that you can do.
So now we're going to talk a
little bit about colorized objects.
So we've spoke what?
So, coverage objects.
Now we're going to talk
about colorized objects.
So the first colorized object is color.
Color refs.
Color refs represent single
sort of color spot colors.
Sort of its infinite sheet of
everything being the same color.
As well as patterns, right?
It's still an infinite sheet,
but it's a repeating
pattern that sort of goes,
continues.
Using color refs are always faster.
Always faster than using the
CG context set RGB color or
It's more efficient.
We can cache the colors, color refs,
as I said.
Your color references are keys
to internal caches inside of CG.
And when you reuse your color refs,
that is going to be a
good advantage to you.
So as I say,
even in the case where you're doing
the black text versus the blue text,
use a color ref to set the text.
The second thing is,
or the third thing on this slide,
is about color spaces.
What you'd like to do is you'd like
to use the color spaces appropriately.
If you have gray and it is gray,
say it's gray.
Don't say it's RGB.
This helps us in many ways.
It's more complicated to match
those colors versus gray colors.
If something is gray or it's not CMYK,
don't convert it into CMYK because it's
not always equal to the same thing.
You definitely want to use your
color spaces appropriately.
And as always, try to avoid color state
changes if you've got your blue
text versus your black text.
You know the story.
The other thing is to
do with transparency.
It doesn't matter what
architecture you're on,
how fast your GPU is or your CPU,
dealing with transparency is
encouraged at a certain cost.
If an object needs to be transparent,
then say it's a transparent object.
If it doesn't need to be transparent,
like it's very close to opaque,
then say it's a opaque.
Whenever we're dealing with transparency,
it's a full read modifier
right of the destination.
So if you want to
increase your fill rate,
for example,
you would probably want to use things
that you would realize when you actually
profile it yourself that opaque fills
are much faster than transparent fills.
So I told you to minimize
your state changes,
and I told you to use color refs.
But what happens if you have a
gradient that is a slight transition
from one alpha to the next?
You can go and create separate objects,
but that's somewhat wasteful in
order to just change the alpha.
So you can use CGContext set
alpha to get the same effect,
and it's a much more
lightweight state change.
It has nothing to do with
the color or color matching.
It only has to do with
a transparency value.
So if you use the CGContext set alpha,
you get a much faster method
of doing alpha transitions.
OK, let's go on to patterns.
Patterns are basically
representations of tile drawing.
They're a lot faster than you
going through and saying tile,
tile, tile, tile, tile, tile.
Patterns are also cached by courts.
So what happens is that
when you draw a pattern,
regardless of what space you
specified your pattern to be,
the pattern-- the space that matters
or the representation that matters
is the one that's actually going
to physically hit your device.
So you might have a pattern
that's 1,000 by 1,000,
but you're only running
it into 100 by 100.
What we do is we cache the 100
by 100 color matched version.
So now whenever you want to fill,
if you reuse your
pattern ref all the time,
what will happen is we look
that up in our internal caches,
and we'll find them and say, hey,
we've got something.
We don't have to go through and
call your pattern proc again and
do color matching on the data.
So definitely you want to
reuse your pattern refs.
So that's a big advantage.
And the last point on here
is about tiling boundaries.
So in the previous
section about clipping,
where we spoke about transforming
your user space to your device space,
you probably want to do that
too in this particular case,
because you do want your
patterns to hit pixel alignment.
Easy way to do that is to set
the appropriate tiling mode,
which is a constant spacing version
which allows your patterns to
be spaced on pixel boundaries.
So now let's go into shadings.
Shadings represent sort of smooth
transitions between colors,
right?
And they're much faster than you,
obviously, drawing each scan line.
Imagine doing that picture by
just drawing little thin lines of
colors or even stretching an image.
So you can definitely do shadings,
use shadings, and you get much faster
color transitions.
Shadings are also cast by Quartz.
In the same way that patterns are
cached in a device-represented form,
color matched and sized appropriately,
shadings are similar.
So when you reuse your shading refs,
you would get-- end up picking up the
cached version every time you redraw it.
Final point on here is
to do with function refs.
You should try and represent
function refs efficiently,
right?
If you're going to be running a function
that's doing some sine curve or whatever,
you might want to think of a more--
a more efficient way of having the
function samples get generated,
you know, or-- a more efficient way of
generating your function samples.
And the other thing that you
would probably want to do is that,
you know, given that you have a shading
which represents an actual shading,
if they share function refs,
you should probably try to reuse
those function refs because your
function ref samples are also cached.
So if you have a shading,
you can change the shading geometry
any which way you want or even
use different types of shadings.
But if you reuse your functions,
then you get much better performance.
So now we're going to talk
about the big Mongo person,
images.
Images,
they represent sort of general data,
which represent general bitmap data,
which is either color
or-- which is and--sorry,
color and alpha.
Images--images are the biggest
cached object that we have,
right?
We go through great
lengths to try and get,
you know, image caching.
I mean, patterns are 1Ks,
and they are used,
and developers use them frequently.
Images are the one that, you know,
pretty much, you know,
most user interfaces are a
lot--are built with images.
Images and text,
those are the big guys that we
concentrate on all the time.
So a few important points about images.
Definitely you want to
consider in certain situations
to use the image quality,
right?
If you have an image
that's being down sampled,
you want to probably,
depending on what you're doing,
whether you're interactive mode and
you want to do things quick and dirty,
you want to set the
interpolation level off,
interpolation quality to low.
And what will happen,
we just do a point sample,
and then we can sort of render
things more appropriately when
you feel appropriate--when
you feel it's appropriate,
you can say,
set the image quality to high.
And then that way,
we go through and do the full line cost,
you know, down sample to get the,
you know, pristine quality that
you guys would like.
So use the interpolation
quality to your advantage.
That's a good thing.
The last thing is--the second
to last thing is--is sort of--
also related to clips and also
related to pattern boundaries.
You want to grab pixel boundaries.
You want to find them and draw them,
right?
If you tell us to draw an image that's
on a pixel crack--not on a pixel crack,
but halfway in,
we go through great lengths to make
sure that you get those nice little
anti-alias edges on the corner.
So if you don't want that to happen,
align your images to
your destination pixels.
The last thing is sort of
using alpha effectively.
As I said before previously,
that alpha is an expensive operation,
causes the full read modify right.
If you have an image data that
is really opaque and you just
happen to fill in all the alpha
channel FFF and you say it's alpha,
guess what,
you're going to get a performance
penalty because we're going
to think of it as alpha.
We have to do a per pixel operation to
figure out whether or not this pixel
needs to be blended with the destination.
If you have things that, let's say,
packed high,
like you've got your alpha and your
RGB just because your rendering engine
or whatever you did came in that form
but it really is an opaque image,
just say alpha skip
first and then we'd say,
oh, it's an opaque image.
We can just blast that
to the destination.
So definitely you want
to use alpha effectively.
So getting more into sort of images,
knowing your pixel format.
This is a whole knowing
your data set thing.
First guy is Robites, right?
Typically what ends up happening is that,
one, either your image is going to be
aligned to the size of your image,
the width of your image,
and in the case of sub-byte pixels,
it's gonna be the nearest byte.
That's actually not on this slide,
but it's definitely rounded up.
You want to use an alignment
that's appropriate.
Definitely you want to start
off with at least the byte,
rounded up to the nearest byte
if you have sub-byte pixels.
The second thing is you want to
at least align up to the pixel.
If you've got RGB data that
is eight bits per component,
32 bits, aligning onto a 32-bit
boundary is probably -- sorry,
a four-byte boundary is
probably a good thing.
The next one up from
there is vector alignment.
Vector alignment is also good.
We have a lot of vectorized routines that
would benefit greatly from you telling us
not to have to do shuffles all the time.
So if you aligned your row
bytes to be vector aligned,
that would be a good thing.
The second one or the third one
is sort of cache line alignment.
Cache line alignment,
that's sort of a dubious one because
it depends on your architecture,
but 32, 64, those are good sizes.
Of course,
there's wasted space on the side,
but this is what you
have to sort of gauge,
whether or not that wasted space
is worth the effort or worth the
performance advantage versus not.
So the next thing is component size.
Well, 8 bits, 16 bits,
32 bits and floats, those are all good.
Your 11-bit data, for example,
that's probably not going
to go down the optimal path.
So if you have data that is 11 bits,
if you're only going to draw it once,
let's say, and you're going to rely
on the image caching,
then sure, fine, set your 11-bit data.
But if you're going to draw it
repeatedly and you figure that it's
going to get drawn out of your cache
and you're going to reuse it often
over and over but not too frequently,
you might want to sort of move
that into a different 16-bit,
for example.
That will be a lot more optimal path.
So those are component sizes.
More about pixel format.
Premultiplied data.
People always wonder, geez,
do I premultiply my data or not?
Well, that's a good question.
If you have data that
you're working with,
like pixels that you're actually
physically manipulating,
you've got some rendering engine,
if it's better for you
to work with alpha,
premultiplied alpha, then sure, do so.
We have paths that will handle that.
But if you're not,
don't try to premultiply the
data for us because we can do it.
We don't need any help.
And sometimes, as a second point on here,
if you try to premultiply the data ahead
of time in order to save us time but
you just happen to do the wrong thing,
like color match it or interpolate
it or something like that,
we end up having to undo
your premultiplication.
So the best advice is for you to just,
if you have data that's unpremultiplied,
leave it unpremultiplied.
If you have data that you want
to work with premultiplied,
sure, that's fine.
Use the premultiplication there.
That's a very important point.
Okay, so now let's talk a little bit
about knowing your Indian-ness.
We all heard about the switch.
So we're wondering how we're
going to deal with that.
So images are considered
at the API level to be a--
Byte, order, stream.
And what that means is most significant
to least significant repeated
ad infinitum for every scanline.
We've added some new bitmap info
constants that you can mask in
when you create your objects.
And what they are,
are basically-- it tells
us basically a swap unit.
And the swap unit is effectively
applied to entire stream in sequence.
There's no skipping.
It's sort of you have your image data,
and we do swaps of the
stream as we go into pixels.
So as developers, when you're running
on the Intel platform,
you probably want to be
prepared for image data.
If you are asking for
data or manipulating data,
you probably want to be prepared
to receive this kind of data.
So you can test to find out
what the image bitmap format
is by asking get bitmap info,
and that will give you the actual mask.
That you can sort of-- sorry,
the info field,
which you can mask off to say, geez,
is it big Indian, is it little Indian,
or is it host?
We've applied host here to sort of say,
I want it to be host.
I don't want to care.
It's a relative fashion
versus an absolute.
So you have those three sets of-- or
three classes of constants to use.
So let's say you're on an Intel machine,
and you have some data,
and you want to apply this
Indian thing to go fast.
Well.
Our suggestion is to only do
this for things that really,
really make sense.
Things like RGB data that's
swapped on a 32-byte boundary,
that doesn't make a lot of sense.
And there are probably not going
to be too many optimal paths
to pick this kind of data up.
So you probably want to stay
away from stuff like that.
But definitely,
things that are like 32-byte,
that are ARGB, or even skip RGB,
then you can apply the 32-byte.
So the important things to know
about whether or not you should
apply this byte order swap flag,
it has to do with one,
your component size, two,
your pixel size, and three,
your row bytes.
So the best way for you to figure out
whether or not you should use these
flags is you think about it as the
component size or the pixel size must
be congruent to the value you want.
So if it's 16-bit components
or 16 bits per pixel,
yes, you can turn on the swapping,
use the swapping.
As well as row bytes, right?
That's obvious,
because you really don't want us to be
swapping across scanline boundaries.
So you have to use this with caution.
But in general,
these flags are really useful and
allows you to go a lot faster,
because we have a lot of very,
very tuned paths for these cases.
So now we're going to move on
to color space and color spaces.
So even though you
know your pixel format,
you want to know what color space to use.
Well, our suggestion is that you should
use the generic color spaces,
right?
We have lots of generic color spaces,
which are RGB, CMYK, and gray.
You want to use those for your data.
Which one do you use?
Use the one with the least number of
components for which you have data.
In my example about colors,
you don't want to say, oh, jeez,
let's make it RGB when you have gray.
Just use gray.
So don't try and coerce your
data into something else.
If you've got data,
we have color spaces that suit you.
We have all sorts of RGB gray.
And we have a lot of other color spaces,
like calibrated stuff,
that you can use also.
So definitely avoid coercing your data.
So other people sometimes want to say,
jeez, well,
I really want my images to go fast.
I don't want to have to go
through this color conversion
bottleneck or color conversion hit.
How can I avoid it?
Well,
you can use the destination color space.
If you say that your image is
in a destination color space,
we don't incur any color
matching penalties.
But there's a catch.
The data is in color match.
So it's not color correct.
It's not color managed.
So you've got to be cautious about that.
If you want it to go fast, then fine.
Sometimes if you want to
create color correct data,
you probably don't want
to do that instead.
You want to use a generic color space.
The last point on there is,
what if I don't know my color space?
Where do I get it from?
Well,
you can get it from the bitmap context,
or you can use a display profile.
In your examples,
for I think the worm example,
there's a method of getting
the display profile.
So that's what you'd use
to go for window contexts.
Um, images and caching.
Strange thing, but sometimes useful.
You got, like, a 16-megabyte
file, which is a TIF file.
And you really want to
render a little thumbnail.
Common technique that we suggest to
developers is to pre-render the data.
And how you would do that is
that you'd create a bitmap
context of the appropriate size
and color space-- remember,
either destination or
generic-- and pixel format,
alpha or not.
If your image is rotated,
you probably want alpha.
If it's not rotated and it's rectilinear,
it's going to fit right
inside of your destination.
You can create something
that doesn't require alpha.
That's also going to be a
performance speedup for you.
So you create your destination.
You draw your image
into the bitmap context.
Then you ask the bitmap
context for its image.
And then you render the image instead.
Don't render the terabyte image.
Render the little tiny thumbnail.
So that's one way of caching.
The second way of caching
is sort of more advanced.
It has to do with data providers.
You all see these data provider
things that we have to create.
In image IO, there's data sources.
It represents the data source,
where you're getting your bits from.
But it effectively decouples your
image specification of what it is,
from the actual data source.
And because we cache images,
or your image addressor
uses keys to caches,
you can sort of create your image,
create your source-- or sorry,
create your source first, obviously,
which is your data provider.
Then create your image,
wrap it around that,
and then draw your image.
And you say, OK, great.
I want to hang on to my source.
I don't want to evict all that data.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to hang on to my source,
but I'm going to blow away my image.
At that point, we say, oh,
you've destroyed the image.
So we blow away our cache version.
But you still have your data source.
Now,
there are lots of different techniques
that you can use to minimize the effects
of hanging on to that data source.
Right?
You can purge the data
source when you see fit.
Right?
Or you can pre-render your data source.
Like, for instance,
the first time you use your image,
you can pre-render it
or pre-decompress it.
Right?
And then when you draw your image,
it's already going to
be pre-decompressed.
So there's lots of different ways
that you can use data providers
to your advantage to sort of
deal with decoupling this,
where am I getting my image data
from versus the image that I'm
actually going to use to draw.
So you can definitely start using data
providers in a more appropriate fashion.
So you can start sort
of dealing with caching,
doing your own caching,
doing your own pre-decompression,
doing a lot of these different things.
And even in the previous
example about image caching,
you can actually have an image that
is actually-- you have the data
provider that is there sitting there,
but you haven't physically
made memory for it.
And it's only when the request happens
for the first time do you actually say,
oh, geez, actually,
let me actually draw my little
thumbnail for my two terabyte image.
And then that way,
you can ditch the image when
you see it's appropriate.
So that's another way of sort of an
advanced technique for getting of some of
the penalties associated with large data.
[Transcript missing]
So in this case,
this is the key code that
we're really looking at.
Everything else around it is really-- so
this is about 14 operations per second.
Instead, let's move on.
What if we were to just have
CG do the caching for us,
because all we're going to do is
repeatedly draw that image instead.
And this is the second example.
Here,
we're just going to draw that image.
Let's go back to our example
to go on to the second case.
We're up to about 1,000
operations per second.
So in this case, CG is just basically
blasting through that data,
because it's already cached.
What if we, as Andrew mentioned earlier,
what if we ended up using
CG bitmap context to actually
do the caching for us?
So there's quite a bit of code one has
to come up with in terms of all of the
details of creating the bitmap context.
When we're done with it,
what we're going to do is draw our
original image into that bitmap context.
And once we're done with it,
from the bitmap context,
we're going to now have
our cached image instead.
One other thing that Andrew was
referring to earlier was,
this bitmap context,
we're actually creating an
display RGB color space.
So have a look at the code.
It's very simple to actually
get at the RGB color space.
That's the one we're going to be doing.
We're going to match directly to
that space once and be done with it.
And finally, all we're really going to do
in terms of our test is just
draw the cached image instead.
So let's see how long that took in
terms of the operations per second.
Roughly the same thing.
Basically,
CG is doing the same level of caching
effectively as you would end up doing.
So better for you to just
hold onto your image refs.
Instead, what if instead we were
to use a layer ref?
This is my fourth example.
In the layer ref, the API is very simple.
You don't have to worry about the details
of what type of image from-- sorry,
what type of bitmap
context I want to create.
Just get the content,
create the layer from the context,
and then just draw the image into it.
So we're basically very simple.
Performance wise--
roughly the same,
so in all of those cases you know the
code is much simpler so definitely
you want to use that instead.
My next example is where you
may have your own rendering
engine where you've got,
you know, you are drawing repeatedly
to it and you want to just
draw that image to the screen,
so I'm simulating that by just drawing
a random rectangle into my bit map
context and the bit map context
represents my off screen bit map
that I've -- that I'm drawing into
and I want to draw that repeatedly
or draw that as fast as possible.
Basically in this case because that image
is immutable you do want to create a
new image out of it and then release it.
If you were to hold on to that image
you would probably get the cache
representation that was there already,
so let's look at the
performance in this one.
These are our rectangles.
We're roughly at around
287 operations per second.
Better yet, if you can draw everything
through the CG API,
and you do not need to touch
the bits directly yourself,
just use LayerRef instead.
And the reason for that is we can
actually do-- let me jump to it-- much,
much better caching of it.
So LayerRefs are the way to go.
And take advantage of them.
CG Image IO, there's been several
sessions on it already.
It's very simple.
I'm not going to go into detail,
but basically, in this case,
I've got a test image
that I'm loading up.
Going to use CG Image IO using an image,
a source ref, and just draw the image.
My point here is, in this case,
it's actually taking 23
operations per second.
What's really going on here is
the entire image is being decoded.
It's actually being color-matched.
It's also being down-sampled.
So everything's being done at this point.
Instead, what if we were to do some image
I/O decompression caching so we
could get rid of one of those cases?
And to do that, all we have to do is--
That's actually, I don't see it here.
But it's probably in
the create image code.
But we want to pass in an option
to the CGImageCreate so that we can
actually get the caching done for us.
So let's look at that running.
And in this case,
it's now 43-- double the performance.
So what we've actually done is just,
the JPEG is now no longer
being decompressed repeatedly.
But instead, what we're seeing is the
image is being downsampled.
And I've actually scaled it so that
we can defeat CG's caching instead.
So at this stage,
I'd like to pass it back to Andrew.
ANDREW WONG: Thanks, Arun.
So the key points--reuse your image refs.
Another key point--switch
from bitmap context to layers.
Third point--use
ImageIO where appropriate.
Okay,
so now we've told you how to draw your
data into the Backing Store efficiently,
and now we're going to start
talking about how to get
your data from your Backing
Store onto the screen efficiently.
So, graphics architecture slide,
you've seen it before.
As I said,
we're concentrating not on the part
that's drawing into the backing store,
but we're concentrating more on the part
where the Quartz compositor takes all
the surfaces and all the backing stores,
generates them together to produce
the final output on the frame buffer.
So, flushing, right?
A lot of users sort of
just flush willy-nilly.
You probably want to stop that.
You make sure that what you
flush is what the developer--is
what the user needs to see,
not what you just happened
to draw at the moment.
Users would prefer to see an
atomic frame show up and say,
"Hey, here's your result," as opposed
to things trickling on screen.
So definitely, you want to flush only
what needs to be flushed.
Second point about flushing is that
if you try to flush faster than
the refresh rate of the monitor,
the user's not going to see it.
So don't flush faster than the
refresh rate in the monitor.
Try to flush in a more efficient way.
If you don't flush in
a more efficient way,
basically you're just going to
consume tons of CPU in order to
get that data onto the screen.
So definitely minimizing what you
flush is a definite advantage.
So let's see a little bit about that.
So we've got a little timeline where
we're running our refresh going at VBL1,
VBL2, VBL3.
We got an application.
It's green.
It's all good to go.
Application comes in at VBL1.
Screen refreshes,
and that's what you see on the screen.
At subsequent, before VBL2,
application draws A,
consumes a chunk of CPU and
GPU resources to do so.
Then application draws
a little bit again,
draws B, consumes even more CPU and
GPU resources to draw B.
But guess what?
VBL2 gets what the
user's going to see--B.
So, let's try again.
Do C, consume even more CPU.
Do some more stuff.
Lots of flushing.
Lots of drawing and lots of flushing.
And then finally ends through Z.
That's a lot of stuff.
Lots of CPU.
But guess what the user is going to see.
Just Z.
So wouldn't it be nice if the
developer could-- or you guys-- or
your applications would be a little
bit more optimal than what it flushed?
And get rid of all of those guys
and then look at the resources used
in order to render those frames.
So definitely,
if you want to increase your
performance in your application,
don't overflush.
What you want to do is you want to use
an optimal flushing kind of mechanism.
So one suggestion is to use
animated-- for animated content,
you probably want to use a timer.
Have your timer run at the
refresh rate of the monitor,
or half the refresh rate of the monitor.
The second thing about your drawing is
that you should probably try to-- the
refresh rate should be greater than
what it takes for you to draw a frame.
Because you don't want to have
your timer backing up on itself.
So definitely.
Use the timers.
Another thing about it is to-- which
is a very important point about
drawing-- is that what you really
would like to do is you really would
like to decouple your visualization
engine from your data engine.
If your data engine is going off and
running off and touching the network
and churning out a bunch of files,
you don't want to have the
user penalized for that.
You want the user to be able to
resize and snap around and do all
this extra stuff whenever he wants to.
But your data can get
rummaged on the disk,
and you can do all that heavy lifting.
And you can do it in the background.
So another example of that would be,
for instance, like TextEdit.
TextEdit does this layout when
you open a really large document.
The layout actually happens
on a separate thread.
The user can open a
document instantaneously,
but the layout happens further on.
So this is what you can also
use these different techniques.
Definitely for network and disk I/O,
threads would be the answer.
Sometimes timers are good.
So you want to definitely minimize
your flushing in that way.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to invite Harun up again to
show another demo about drawing--
drawing and flushing optimally.
OK, so this is a worm demo.
So you want to pull that down
if you've got access to it.
But this was something that
was discussed a few WWDCs ago.
So I won't go into the details of it.
But let me at least run the demo,
so you know what's going on.
But basically I'm just
going to be playing a game,
which is-- you get the point.
You've seen these games before.
It's a worm or snake going around.
And we're going to try and see
how fast we can actually do this.
When the game's playing,
it's running at around
six frames a second.
And there are different
ways of improving it.
So in this case, in the four cases above,
instead of the play,
what we're doing is basically
trying to run the game engine
at about 1,000 frames a second.
But we're only seeing about 200 frames.
And then we go through
a few optimizations.
[Transcript missing]
So let me move this out of the way.
And notice,
I'm actually running on Panther,
and we'll talk about Tiger later.
So the first optimization-- let me
quickly skip through some of this stuff.
But we're setting the view as opaque.
In the second optimization,
which I won't cover here,
we're only drawing the change rectangle.
The third optimization that could be
done is using the NsLayoutManager to
actually do the caching of the layout.
The fourth one is what
we're really interested in,
is decoupling the display
timer from the engine timer.
So this is where
I wanted to point to you,
that we're running the engine
at about 1,000 frames a second.
What we're really doing in this case
is just adding a new timer in here.
The timer is actually going
to run at 30 frames a second,
which was one of the
recommendations I made.
And then the timer, on its callback,
all it's going to do is actually
end up calling the fire update.
Well, let's look at the fire.
Fire update does nothing more than
just do a sets need display in Rect.
And given that we were actually going
to be drawing this periodically,
and we may want to accumulate
a dirty region instead,
so most of this code really
does is have a look at it,
play with it.
All this does is actually just
update the dirty rectangle.
So finally, what you want to do is
just stop the timer.
So back to Andrew.
ANDREW FITZ GIBBON: Thanks, Arun.
So I hope you guys caught the CPU meter,
right?
As soon as you switch
to the good version,
the CPU meter went . So that's
what I was getting at,
sort of consuming resources
in order to flush.
So thanks, Rune.
So now let's go a little
bit up to updates.
Every flush you do causes an
update to happen on the screen.
So we go back to our little diagram,
but we're going to change
it up a little bit,
and what we're going to do is
track the CPU required to produce
the next frame for the next VBL.
So application one comes in,
and let's say he did exactly
what Haroon did and minimized his
drawing and flushing at 30 hertz.
So he comes in and he starts to draw,
causes some CPU utilization or to
generate the frames for the next VBL.
Application two comes in, right,
draws some more, consumes some more CPU.
And it's easy to see that
after N applications,
guess what, we're already maxed out.
So even though you've done your work and
ran off and optimized things and changes
so that you don't flush all the time
and create an optimal way of doing it,
there are other applications in
the system that can be running at
the same time that will still cause
us to get into this situation.
So what we're going to do is I'm going
to demonstrate exactly what will happen
when these applications are all running.
Switch to demo machine one.
Demo machine one.
Okay, so here we have, you know,
a little status updater.
Basically what it's doing,
it's pretending as if it's copying files,
let's say.
But it does insist on printing
every string that needs to be shown.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to start these guys.
So the number really should
be exactly that number.
It's 480, right?
Because that's the time in which
the simulation is happening.
So as we start--so he's basically saying
every time he needs to copy a file,
he--or print a copy of
file or do an iteration,
he prints a string, right?
So now we start another guy.
And then now we start another guy.
Oops.
And right away,
It's not taking us too long before
we start cutting our rate in two.
So basically,
our data engine is running at exactly
the same speed as a visualization engine.
But guess what?
Our data engine is being slowed
down by a visualization engine.
So what you really would
like to do is not do this.
You would really want to say, well,
Do we really need to be printing
all these strings all the time?
I mean, can you see those strings?
Probably not.
Or you can see a blur, I guess.
So what you want to
do is you want to say,
hey,
got a little version here setting up that
it's doing things in a different way.
It's actually printing out
the strings like every--
[Transcript missing]
We're still copying at 480, right?
So don't let your visual engine
slow down your data engine,
right?
So that's one important good,
very good point.
So let's go back to the
slides a little bit.
So even though you've drawn optimally,
and we told you about the situation,
even in that example,
we can still run into other
situations where we're still,
because of multiple
applications are running,
we're still banging into each other
because you and you and you and you,
you're all wanting to flush.
You're doing it optimally,
but you can still see the
CPU is going to get taxed.
So what we did for Tiger is we
co-released all these updates.
What happens is that your
applications draw into their
perspective backing stores,
and that data is then composited
together in one atomic frame,
or co-released together
in one atomic frame,
and presented to the user at once.
So basically, all the applications,
all their flushes,
are all co-released together,
and they all get sent out in one frame.
So this type of strategy makes
much better use of the GPU and CPU.
So we don't actually obey your
flush right now for the next VBL,
or we don't send it out,
but we schedule it for the next VBL.
And you're flush, and you're flush,
and you're flush.
And you get to see the points.
But let's sort of look at it.
Let's go back to our little
familiar timeline here.
Got timelines going,
the CPU tax for actually sending
out a frame for the next VBL.
So let's say application
one starts to flush,
but he doesn't really
get flushed right away.
We sort of schedule him for the next VBL.
So that's actually what happens,
and then CPU usage to generate
that VBL frame actually goes up,
obviously.
But the second application that
comes in and flushes sometime later,
or before, or whenever,
he does his flush,
and it also gets scheduled
for the next VBL.
But the CPU meter hasn't gone up.
We haven't spent any more
time generating that frame.
And you can see, after n applications,
there's no more extra CPU being used.
So we only end up generating a certain
amount of CPU just to render that frame.
And we're not sort of at the mercy of
multiple applications generating it.
We're generating and flushing.
So now I'm going to show you a
little bit of this in action,
switching to demo two.
So now we have--in Haroun's example,
I got--well,
I have the status updaters up there.
There are two bad ones and one good one.
And I got worm,
which is Haroun's example,
but one good worm,
which is the one he showed you last,
and then I actually colored
the bad worm in red.
So now we're going--the
fish are swimming.
We're--we're--we're--see it, you know,
they're hopping along.
And then, you know,
let's say we wanted to play a movie.
So we play a movie, right?
So the movie's being played,
and it's also utilizing a
certain amount of resources in
order to generate its frames.
But the movie is pretty taxing,
so it's actually using CPU.
But what happens now is that,
as you can see,
the fish are kind of chunky.
But when we switch to Tiger with those
co-release updates optimizations put in,
we get this instead.
Fish is swimming a lot faster.
There's less CPU being used in order to
generate the frames for the next VBL.
Everybody gets scheduled together, right?
So there's a definite
advantage for your user.
Your application's--your entire user
interface does not feel buggy because
it has multiple stuff going on.
Not that you'd be really running
Atlantis and playing a movie and
copying files at the same time,
but you get the point.
So now we're gonna go back to the slides.
So--sorry.
So, co-released updates.
Well,
we told you that your application updates
are being scheduled for the next VBL.
That's exactly what's going to happen.
But there's an important,
interesting point to note.
Your application drawing
onto a particular area,
when you flush that area,
it's going to stop you from drawing
on that area until the actual area
that you've previously flushed
got committed to the display.
So there's a hitch.
So let's look at what that means.
So applications typically
go through a drawing cycle,
right?
They draw and they flush.
So application starts drawing
for a particular period of time,
then it issues a flush.
That flush gets scheduled
for the next PBL.
During that time,
the application will be blocked
from drawing on his Backing
Store until the actual data
gets committed to the display.
Similarly,
another application that comes in,
maybe starts to draw a little
later and flushes a little later,
he also gets scheduled.
But his waiting time is
a little bit shorter.
But basically the point is what
you would really like to do is
any time you need to do updating,
try to sort of do at half
the refresh rate or even the
refresh rate of the monitor.
That way you sort of
minimize your drawing.
But to be more specific,
what you'd like to do is you'd like to
sort of obviously avoid these blocks.
How do you avoid blocking
your application?
Well, the first thing you've got to do,
as we said before,
is minimize your flushing.
That's the one thing you have to stop.
You use timers or use threads
or whatever you want to use,
try to do.
The second thing to do when you happen
to do drawing is what you'd like to
do is try to do useful work before
you start drawing your next frame.
So if you've got lots of layout to do,
do the layout first before
you start drawing your text.
Don't layout and draw at the same time.
So that way you have ample
amount of time from your previous
flush to do lots of useful work.
We're not off touch with this.
Do layout, whatever you want to do,
and then start generating the next frame.
So another important point, scrolling.
Scrolling is an interesting thing.
Scrolling,
you might need special treatment
for scrolling because scrollers,
especially on the button,
user interactions are fine.
But when you're scrolling the buttons,
typically developers say, OK, great,
I've got another button click.
Let's advance by 10.
What you more want to do
is you want to do timing.
So you say, OK, I've got a button click.
I've advanced by a certain amount.
OK, the next time I come back, you say,
well, I'm not actually moved up by 10,
but I'm actually moved up by 50.
Let's issue the next scroll
application to move by 50.
So those are a bunch of different ways
you can do to alleviate your problem.
What you'd like to do is sort of also,
how to detect the problem.
Well,
Quartz Debug is there for you to use,
and you want to use Shark also
to debug your samples.
There's a special option
called Times All Thread States.
What you want to use is use that.
And what that would do is that
will not only track the time
spent in your application,
but it actually tracks a
time global system-wide.
So that's the way how you
would pick up blocking.
But there's a Shark session
that is coming on further
today that you would see.
But anyway, so the crux is that there are
some difficulties involved.
But there will be a technical coming up
that would talk some more about trying
to avoid some of the penalties associated
with over-flushing and trying to optimize
your flushing so that you work better.
So now we're going to talk a little bit
about application graphics optimizations.
Basically,
I'd like to share this quote with you.
Premature evil.
It's a very nice quote, I like it.
Don't optimize before you
figure out you need to optimize.
So basic discipline,
profile your application,
optimize your application.
Rinse and repeat, add in front item,
keep on going.
Re-explore architectural
decisions you might want to use.
So that's the basic discipline.
Tools to use, Shark.
Shark's your friend, right?
And then related sessions
coming up at 2:00 PM,
you want to use that.
Go to that session.
What you want to look for in Shark,
anything to do with graphics.
Graphics, course filling,
stuff like that, you want to use those.
Second thing you want
to look for is flushing.
Well, you won't actually see flushing.
What you flush is
completely asynchronous.
And when you try to do this flush,
it won't show up on your profile.
What will show up on your profile is the
next drawing operation after you flushed.
So that's what you would see in profile.
The last thing you want to look
for in Shark is anything to do
with locking and synchronize.
Basically means contention.
If you see it, try and avoid it.
Another tool to use is Quartz Debug.
Lots of cool things in Quartz Debug.
Auto-flushing shows what's been
drawn and how frequently or
redundantly it's been drawn.
Flashing updates, that will show you and
say what's been flushed,
even though you've drawn it.
You wouldn't want to flash it.
And flashing identical updates,
what that does is it allows you to
figure out what's being drawn that
may not necessarily need to be drawn.
You see the same white rectangle
being flashed all the time.
Well, that's probably something that you
probably didn't need to flush or draw.
And there are also lots of
tools to do with high DPI and
frame rates and stuff like that.
So let's consider one last
section about live resizing.
As I said, user wants to interact
with his application.
And they really want to
behave in a certain way.
What you really want to do is
try and do separate data engine
versus visualization engine.
You might want to maybe sometimes
render lower quality results.
You don't have to draw your
high interpolation quality
every time you resize.
And text layout.
Do your text layout ahead of time.
Or do the text layout every so often.
Or do the text layout when the
application has finished resizing.
Those are all these things.
Network and data access, avoid them.
Don't do them at all.
Just if you can get away with
having your application resized
without having to touch the network,
you should probably-- your
application will benefit greatly.
So for live resizing in Carbon,
there are a bunch of things
that are associated with it.
But basically,
the general rule is to don't draw
or invalidate-- or only draw or
invalidate the newly exposed stuff.
Don't draw too much.
So the way how you do that
is just basically diff the
previous and the next bounds,
or the current bounds and the
previous bounds in the event.
And then for HI views that
are compositing views,
you would use the invalidate to
minimize what you're invalidating.
And notifications are available
when it's been started.
When it's been stopped,
you can use that to say, OK, great.
I'll create my low quality result image,
or I'll do my layout or whatever.
So you get the notifications.
In Cocoa, similar set of rules.
Only draw the newly exposed regions.
You can find those out by calling the
get next and get exposed recs call to
give you back only the exposed regions.
And the other thing is, too,
you can use the in resize
option to figure out,
oh, I'm actually in resize.
Maybe I don't need to do
my high quality image.
And the other option that the kit has
also provided was preserving content.
You can specify that-- your view
preserves content during resize,
so you don't have to draw anything.
You only have to draw
the newly exposed data.
And notifications are
also available in the kit,
too.
So for more information,
there's lots of sample code and
resources that can be found at that URL,
other related sessions.
Swimming with the Sharks,
definitely want to go to that.
Sharks your friend.
And who to contact?
Travis.
Everybody knows Travis.
He's cool.
And basically, this is a book that's been
presented I'm sure maybe you've
seen other graphics presentations.
There were these slides.
There's a free chapter on performance.
This is a very, very, very good book.
It's written by one of the
developers that work with Apple.
So he's got the whole skinny on
basically every type of optimization
technique you might want to use.
And just basic drawing.